# Verbs: agentive voice

Verbs in Iridian are significantly more complex than in English; a single verb can take up to eight different affixes, as shown in the template below:

| Slot | B | A | 0 | I | II | III | IV | V | VI |
|------|---|---|---|---|----|-----|----|---|----|
| Function | negation | valency | VERB STEM | voice | modality | aspect | mood | conjunctive form | person |

For example, a verb like пяшта (to eat) can be conjugated as follows, showing the complexity of Iridian verbs:

| Conjugated form | translation | B | A | 0 | I | II | III | IV | V | VI |
|-----------------|-------------|---|---|---|---|----|-----|----|---|----|
| пящек | '(I) ate '| - | - | пяшт | -ь | - | -eк | - | - | - |
| попящицот | '(I) was made to eat by (him/her)' | - | по- | пяшт | -ь | - | -ек | - | -е | -от |


We call пяшта the infinitive form of the verb; it is also sometimes called the dictionary form as it is the form commonly found in dictionaries. The infinitive form of the verb is marked by the ending -а. Removing this ending gives us the verb stem, пяшт. The verb stem is the part of the verb that is conjugated to show tense, aspect, mood, person, etc.

Each verb must be obligatorily marked for the voice, which appears immediately after the verb stem. In English, a verb by default is in the active voice, and the passive voice is formed by adding the auxiliary verb *to be* and the past participle of the verb. In Iridian, on the other hand, there is no "default" voice and thus this category must be marked on the verb explicitly. Moreover, Iridian does not distinguish between the active and passive voices, but rather between the following voices:

* agentive voice - the subject of the verb is the agent or doer of the action
* patientive voice - the subject of the verb is the object or patient of the action
* locative voice - the subject of the verb is the location of the action
* benefactive voice - the subject of the verb is the beneficiary of the action
* resultative voice - the action described by the verb is the result of the subject or the subject's actions

In this lesson, we introduce the agentive voice.
The *agentive voice* is used when the subject of the verb is the agent or doer of the action.